README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TrustBound/dream/main/ricky_and_lucy.png" alt="Ricky Moony and Lucy, a moon shaped mascot for Dream with the star shaped mascot for Gleam, each with cute cartoon eyes and a smile" width="200">

<b>Clean, composable web development for Gleam. No magic.</b>

</div>

<br />

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://hex.pm/packages/dream">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/dream" alt="Hex Package">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TrustBound/dream?label=Release" alt="Latest Release">
  </a>
  <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/dream">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/hex-docs-lightgreen.svg" alt="HexDocs">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/LICENSE.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="MIT License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://gleam.run">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/gleam-%E2%9C%A8-ffaff3" alt="Gleam">
  </a>
</div>

<br />

## What is Dream?

Dream is a web toolkit for building servers. It's not a framework—you control everything. No hidden configuration, no magic middleware appearing from nowhere. Your `main()` function shows exactly what's happening.

**Built for Gleam** (a type-safe functional language) and **runs on the BEAM** (the same runtime that powers WhatsApp, Discord, and millions of concurrent connections).

## A Quick Example

Here is the smallest useful Dream server. It responds with `"Hello, world!"`.

```gleam
import dream/http.{text_response, ok}
import dream/http/request.{Get}
import dream/router.{router, route}
import dream/servers/mist/server

fn index(_request, _context, _services) {
  text_response(ok, "Hello, world!")
}

pub fn main() {
  let app_router =
    router()
    |> route(method: Get, path: "/", controller: index, middleware: [])

  server.new()
  |> server.router(app_router)
  |> server.bind("localhost")
  |> server.listen(3000)
}
```

**Run this:** `gleam run` → Visit `http://localhost:3000/` → See `Hello, world!`

In words:

- `index` is a **controller**: it takes a request/context/services and
  returns a response.
- `router()` and `route(...)` define which controller handles which
  requests.
- `server.new() |> ... |> server.listen(3000)` configures and starts a
  Mist-based HTTP server using a builder pattern.

Types are omitted here for brevity – Gleam can infer them. The
[quickstart](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/quickstart.md)
walks through a fully-typed version line by line.

## What Dream Can Do

Dream is more than "Hello, world". Here are a few small examples of
what it helps you build.

### JSON APIs

```gleam
fn get_user(request, context, services) {
  let user = find_user(services.db, id: 1)
  json_response(ok, user_to_json(user))
}
```

- Use `Services` to carry dependencies like a database pool.
- Use view functions (like `user_to_json`) to keep formatting separate
  from data access.

### Streaming responses

```gleam
fn download_log(request, context, services) {
  let stream = make_log_stream(services.log_store)
  stream_response(ok, stream, "text/plain")
}
```

- Send large responses as a stream of chunks.
- Use the BEAM's strengths for long-running, memory-efficient
  operations.

### WebSockets

```gleam
fn chat(request, context, services) {
  websocket.upgrade_websocket(
    request,
    dependencies: make_dependencies(request, services),
    on_init: handle_init,
    on_message: handle_message,
    on_close: handle_close,
  )
}
```

- Upgrade an HTTP request to a typed WebSocket connection.
- Use explicit `Dependencies` instead of closures, so it’s clear what
  each handler needs.

See the [guides](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md)
for complete examples of JSON APIs, streaming, and WebSockets.

## Why This Approach?

**Everything is explicit.** You can see exactly where your database connection comes from. No globals, no hidden state, no framework magic.

**Controller actions are just functions.** No base classes, no decorators, no inheritance. Extract parameters, do work, return a response.

**Type-safe controllers.** The compiler verifies your context and services types match across all controllers. However, path parameters are validated at runtime, not compile-time—this trade-off favors API ergonomics over compile-time safety. See [Discussion #15](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/discussions/15) for details.

**Composable, not opinionated.** Use Dream's patterns, or build your own. It's just functions and data.

## Learn More

- 📚 [Complete Documentation](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md) - Guides, tutorials, and concepts
- 📖 [API Reference](https://hexdocs.pm/dream) - Complete API documentation on HexDocs
- 🚀 [Quickstart](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/quickstart.md) - Get a server running
- 💡 [Examples](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/tree/main/examples) - Working code you can run

## Why Gleam? Why the BEAM?

**Gleam** is a type-safe functional language. You get compile-time error checking, no nulls, and a modern syntax. Learn it in a weekend.

**The BEAM** is the runtime that powers Erlang and Elixir. It was built for reliability and concurrency:

- **Millions of concurrent connections** per server (WhatsApp: 2.8M per server)
- **Fault tolerance** - processes crash in isolation, the rest keep running
- **Hot code reloading** - update code without dropping connections

**Real-world results:**

- Discord: 12M+ concurrent users, 26M WebSocket events/sec with ~5 engineers
- Remote: Grew from zero to unicorn (~$3B) in ~2 years with Elixir
- BBC: Elixir serving almost all BBC web and app traffic

Gleam gives you the BEAM's superpowers with type safety. You write functions. The BEAM handles concurrency, fault tolerance, and scaling.

[Read more about why Gleam and the BEAM →](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md)

## Philosophy

Dream is **explicitly not a framework**. We provide:

✅ Clean interfaces and types  
✅ Common patterns (controllers, models, middleware)  
✅ Useful utilities (validation, response builders)  
✅ Working examples

You provide:

🎯 Your application structure  
🎯 Your router configuration  
🎯 Your controllers and models  
🎯 Your business logic

**No magic. No hidden behavior. Everything explicit.**

## Contributing

See the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md#contributing) for guidelines.

---

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md)

---

<div align="center">
  <sub>Built in Gleam, on the BEAM, by the <a href="https://github.com/trustbound/dream">Dream Team</a> ❤️</sub>
</div>

Commit message:

feat: add teapot (418) HTTP status constant
## Why This Change Was Made
- Avoid the magic-number anti-pattern for 418 by exposing a semantic constant (`teapot`) for readability
- Close out GitHub issue #38 by making “I’m a teapot” as easy to write as `ok` and `not_found`

## What Was Changed
- Added `teapot = 418` to `src/dream/http/status.gleam` with RFC 2324 documentation
- Bumped Dream to 2.3.1 and updated `CHANGELOG.md`, `README.md`, and added `releases/release-2.3.1.md`

## Note to Future Engineer
- This is intentionally tiny and backwards-compatible; if it breaks something, the universe is trying to tell you something about your assumptions
- If you ever feel tempted to type `418` again, take a deep breath, whisper “semantic clarity”, and choose `teapot` like the evolved being you are

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TrustBound/dream/main/ricky_and_lucy.png" alt="Ricky Moony and Lucy, a moon shaped mascot for Dream with the star shaped mascot for Gleam, each with cute cartoon eyes and a smile" width="200">

<b>Clean, composable web development for Gleam. No magic.</b>

</div>

<br />

<div align="center">
  <a href="https://hex.pm/packages/dream">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/hexpm/v/dream" alt="Hex Package">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/TrustBound/dream?label=Release" alt="Latest Release">
  </a>
  <a href="https://hexdocs.pm/dream">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/hex-docs-lightgreen.svg" alt="HexDocs">
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/LICENSE.md">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="MIT License">
  </a>
  <a href="https://gleam.run">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/gleam-%E2%9C%A8-ffaff3" alt="Gleam">
  </a>
</div>

<br />

## What is Dream?

Dream is a web toolkit for building servers. It's not a framework—you control everything. No hidden configuration, no magic middleware appearing from nowhere. Your `main()` function shows exactly what's happening.

**Built for Gleam** (a type-safe functional language) and **runs on the BEAM** (the same runtime that powers WhatsApp, Discord, and millions of concurrent connections).

## A Quick Example

Here is the smallest useful Dream server. It responds with `"Hello, world!"`.

```gleam
import dream/http.{text_response, ok}
import dream/http/request.{Get}
import dream/router.{router, route}
import dream/servers/mist/server

fn index(_request, _context, _services) {
  text_response(ok, "Hello, world!")
}

pub fn main() {
  let app_router =
    router()
    |> route(method: Get, path: "/", controller: index, middleware: [])

  server.new()
  |> server.router(app_router)
  |> server.bind("localhost")
  |> server.listen(3000)
}
```

**Run this:** `gleam run` → Visit `http://localhost:3000/` → See `Hello, world!`

In words:

- `index` is a **controller**: it takes a request/context/services and
  returns a response.
- `router()` and `route(...)` define which controller handles which
  requests.
- `server.new() |> ... |> server.listen(3000)` configures and starts a
  Mist-based HTTP server using a builder pattern.

Types are omitted here for brevity – Gleam can infer them. The
[quickstart](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/quickstart.md)
walks through a fully-typed version line by line.

Dream also includes **named HTTP status constants** (like `ok`, `not_found`, and `teapot`) so you can avoid magic numbers in responses.

## What Dream Can Do

Dream is more than "Hello, world". Here are a few small examples of
what it helps you build.

### JSON APIs

```gleam
fn get_user(request, context, services) {
  let user = find_user(services.db, id: 1)
  json_response(ok, user_to_json(user))
}
```

- Use `Services` to carry dependencies like a database pool.
- Use view functions (like `user_to_json`) to keep formatting separate
  from data access.

### Streaming responses

```gleam
fn download_log(request, context, services) {
  let stream = make_log_stream(services.log_store)
  stream_response(ok, stream, "text/plain")
}
```

- Send large responses as a stream of chunks.
- Use the BEAM's strengths for long-running, memory-efficient
  operations.

### WebSockets

```gleam
fn chat(request, context, services) {
  websocket.upgrade_websocket(
    request,
    dependencies: make_dependencies(request, services),
    on_init: handle_init,
    on_message: handle_message,
    on_close: handle_close,
  )
}
```

- Upgrade an HTTP request to a typed WebSocket connection.
- Use explicit `Dependencies` instead of closures, so it’s clear what
  each handler needs.

See the [guides](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md)
for complete examples of JSON APIs, streaming, and WebSockets.

## Why This Approach?

**Everything is explicit.** You can see exactly where your database connection comes from. No globals, no hidden state, no framework magic.

**Controller actions are just functions.** No base classes, no decorators, no inheritance. Extract parameters, do work, return a response.

**Type-safe controllers.** The compiler verifies your context and services types match across all controllers. However, path parameters are validated at runtime, not compile-time—this trade-off favors API ergonomics over compile-time safety. See [Discussion #15](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/discussions/15) for details.

**Composable, not opinionated.** Use Dream's patterns, or build your own. It's just functions and data.

## Learn More

- 📚 [Complete Documentation](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md) - Guides, tutorials, and concepts
- 📖 [API Reference](https://hexdocs.pm/dream) - Complete API documentation on HexDocs
- 🚀 [Quickstart](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/quickstart.md) - Get a server running
- 💡 [Examples](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/tree/main/examples) - Working code you can run

## Why Gleam? Why the BEAM?

**Gleam** is a type-safe functional language. You get compile-time error checking, no nulls, and a modern syntax. Learn it in a weekend.

**The BEAM** is the runtime that powers Erlang and Elixir. It was built for reliability and concurrency:

- **Millions of concurrent connections** per server (WhatsApp: 2.8M per server)
- **Fault tolerance** - processes crash in isolation, the rest keep running
- **Hot code reloading** - update code without dropping connections

**Real-world results:**

- Discord: 12M+ concurrent users, 26M WebSocket events/sec with ~5 engineers
- Remote: Grew from zero to unicorn (~$3B) in ~2 years with Elixir
- BBC: Elixir serving almost all BBC web and app traffic

Gleam gives you the BEAM's superpowers with type safety. You write functions. The BEAM handles concurrency, fault tolerance, and scaling.

[Read more about why Gleam and the BEAM →](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md)

## Philosophy

Dream is **explicitly not a framework**. We provide:

✅ Clean interfaces and types  
✅ Common patterns (controllers, models, middleware)  
✅ Useful utilities (validation, response builders)  
✅ Working examples

You provide:

🎯 Your application structure  
🎯 Your router configuration  
🎯 Your controllers and models  
🎯 Your business logic

**No magic. No hidden behavior. Everything explicit.**

## Contributing

See the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/TrustBound/dream/blob/main/docs/index.md#contributing) for guidelines.

---

## License

MIT — see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md)

---

<div align="center">
  <sub>Built in Gleam, on the BEAM, by the <a href="https://github.com/trustbound/dream">Dream Team</a> ❤️</sub>
</div>
