documentation/README.md, before:

# Dream Documentation

Dream is a **composable web library** (not an opinionated framework) built on Gleam/BEAM. We provide clean interfaces, builder patterns, and building blocks. You compose them however you want.

## Core Philosophy

**We provide**: Clean interfaces, common patterns, and reference implementations.  
**You decide**: Which router to use, which server to use, how to structure your application.

**No vendor lock-in**: Everything uses consistent builder patterns and is composable.  
**No closures**: All functions use explicit parameter passing.  
**No magic**: Everything is explicit in your `main()` function.

## Essential Reading

1. **[Architecture Overview](ARCHITECTURE.md)** - Start here to understand Dream's composable design
2. **[Design Principles](DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md)** - Complete design philosophy and rationale
3. **[Naming Conventions](NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md)** - Function naming guidelines for consistency

## Examples

The `src/examples/` directory contains practical examples demonstrating:
- Basic routing and path parameters (`examples/simple/`)
- HTTP client usage for streaming and non-streaming requests (`examples/streaming/`)
- Real-world usage patterns

## Getting Started

```gleam
import dream/servers/mist/server.{bind, listen, router} as dream
import examples/simple/router.{create_router}
import gleam/erlang/process

pub fn main() {
  case
    dream.new()
    |> router(create_router())
    |> bind("localhost")
    |> listen(3000)
  {
    Ok(_) -> process.sleep_forever()
    Error(_) -> Nil
  }
}
```

**Router Configuration**:
```gleam
import dream/core/router.{type Router, add_route, handler, method, new as route, path, router}
import dream/core/http/transaction.{Get}
import examples/simple/controllers/simple_controller

pub fn create_router() -> Router {
  router
  |> add_route(
    route
    |> method(Get)
    |> path("/")
    |> handler(simple_controller.index),
  )
  |> add_route(
    route
    |> method(Get)
    |> path("/users/:id/posts/:post_id")
    |> handler(simple_controller.show),
  )
}
```

Everything is explicit. No magic. No vendor lock-in.

## Key Architectural Principles

- **Builder Pattern Consistency**: Server, router, and HTTP client all use the same fluent API style
- **No Closures**: All functions use explicit parameter passing
- **Result-Based Error Handling**: All failable operations return `Result(success, error)`
- **Type Safety First**: Strong typing throughout
- **Explicit Composition**: Your `main()` shows exactly what's wired together
- **Modular Design**: HTTP client split into logical modules (stream, fetch, internal)

## What Dream Provides

- Builder patterns for server, router, and HTTP client
- Mist HTTP server adapter
- HTTP client with streaming and non-streaming support
- Path parameter extraction
- HTTP status code helpers
- Cookie parsing utilities
- Middleware infrastructure (type and builder functions exist, execution not yet implemented)
- Helper functions and utilities
- Documentation and examples

## What You Provide

- **Controller functions** that handle requests
- **Router configuration** using the builder pattern
- **Application-specific** business logic
- **Custom middleware** functions (infrastructure exists, but middleware execution not yet implemented)

## Need Help?

- Read [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for the big picture
- Check [DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md](DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md) for the "why" behind decisions
- Review [NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md](NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md) for function naming guidelines
- Look at examples in `src/examples/` for real-world usage

Commit message:

test: add comprehensive unit test suite for Dream framework
## Why This Change Was Made
- Establish a complete unit testing infrastructure for the Dream framework
- Ensure 100% test coverage of all public functions in src/dream
- Provide clear documentation and standards for writing tests
- Enable developers to verify functionality through automated tests

## What Was Changed
- Added comprehensive test suite covering all modules in src/dream:
  - Core modules: context, dream, router, http/statuses, http/transaction
  - Server modules: mist handler, request, response, server
  - Utility modules: http client, fetch, stream
- Created UNIT_TESTING.md documentation with:
  - Black box testing philosophy and requirements
  - Test naming conventions (<function_name>_<condition>_<expected_result>_test)
  - Arrange, Act, Assert pattern guidelines
  - Dependency injection requirements
  - Coverage requirements (100% coverage of src/dream)
- Added Makefile with test target for easy test execution
- Updated gleam.toml to include gleeunit as dev dependency
- Removed duplicate dream/http modules (consolidated to dream/core/http)
- Fixed infinite loop bug in get_query_param function discovered during testing

## Note to Future Engineer
- All tests follow strict black box testing principles - they only interact with public interfaces
- Test names are descriptive and follow the pattern: <function>_<condition>_<expected>_test()
- If you add a new public function, you MUST add a test for it - 100% coverage is non-negotiable
- Tests serve dual purpose: verification AND documentation of API usage
- Coverage is verified through code review, not automated tools (we tried, Erlang's cover tool and gleam test don't play nice together, so we're keeping it simple and relying on peer review instead of fighting with VM process isolation issues)

documentation/README.md, after:

# Dream Documentation

Dream is a **composable web library** (not an opinionated framework) built on Gleam/BEAM. We provide clean interfaces, builder patterns, and building blocks. You compose them however you want.

## Core Philosophy

**We provide**: Clean interfaces, common patterns, and reference implementations.  
**You decide**: Which router to use, which server to use, how to structure your application.

**No vendor lock-in**: Everything uses consistent builder patterns and is composable.  
**No closures**: All functions use explicit parameter passing.  
**No magic**: Everything is explicit in your `main()` function.

## Essential Reading

1. **[Architecture Overview](ARCHITECTURE.md)** - Start here to understand Dream's composable design
2. **[Design Principles](DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md)** - Complete design philosophy and rationale
3. **[Naming Conventions](NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md)** - Function naming guidelines for consistency
4. **[Unit Testing Guide](UNIT_TESTING.md)** - Unit testing standards and practices

## Examples

The `src/examples/` directory contains practical examples demonstrating:
- Basic routing and path parameters (`examples/simple/`)
- HTTP client usage for streaming and non-streaming requests (`examples/streaming/`)
- Real-world usage patterns

## Getting Started

```gleam
import dream/servers/mist/server.{bind, listen, router} as dream
import examples/simple/router.{create_router}
import gleam/erlang/process

pub fn main() {
  case
    dream.new()
    |> router(create_router())
    |> bind("localhost")
    |> listen(3000)
  {
    Ok(_) -> process.sleep_forever()
    Error(_) -> Nil
  }
}
```

**Router Configuration**:
```gleam
import dream/core/router.{type Router, add_route, handler, method, new as route, path, router}
import dream/core/http/transaction.{Get}
import examples/simple/controllers/simple_controller

pub fn create_router() -> Router {
  router
  |> add_route(
    route
    |> method(Get)
    |> path("/")
    |> handler(simple_controller.index),
  )
  |> add_route(
    route
    |> method(Get)
    |> path("/users/:id/posts/:post_id")
    |> handler(simple_controller.show),
  )
}
```

Everything is explicit. No magic. No vendor lock-in.

## Key Architectural Principles

- **Builder Pattern Consistency**: Server, router, and HTTP client all use the same fluent API style
- **No Closures**: All functions use explicit parameter passing
- **Result-Based Error Handling**: All failable operations return `Result(success, error)`
- **Type Safety First**: Strong typing throughout
- **Explicit Composition**: Your `main()` shows exactly what's wired together
- **Modular Design**: HTTP client split into logical modules (stream, fetch, internal)

## What Dream Provides

- Builder patterns for server, router, and HTTP client
- Mist HTTP server adapter
- HTTP client with streaming and non-streaming support
- Path parameter extraction
- HTTP status code helpers
- Cookie parsing utilities
- Middleware infrastructure (type and builder functions exist, execution not yet implemented)
- Helper functions and utilities
- Documentation and examples

## What You Provide

- **Controller functions** that handle requests
- **Router configuration** using the builder pattern
- **Application-specific** business logic
- **Custom middleware** functions (infrastructure exists, but middleware execution not yet implemented)

## Need Help?

- Read [ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md) for the big picture
- Check [DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md](DESIGN_PRINCIPLES.md) for the "why" behind decisions
- Review [NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md](NAMING_CONVENTIONS.md) for function naming guidelines
- Read [UNIT_TESTING.md](UNIT_TESTING.md) for testing standards and practices
- Look at examples in `src/examples/` for real-world usage
